# Rhapsody_TRX_SW
Software for the modular amateur radio transceiver.

# Rhapsody Project

## Description

Rhapsody is an ongoing project focused on the development of a modular amateur radio transceiver. The current version of the project features the zero IF board, which utilizes two balanced Tayloe mixers to convert 1-30 MHz RF signals into baseband IQ that can be processed by ADC and to convert baseband IQ generated by DAC into output RF implementing simplex HF transceiver.

Future modules are planned to expand the functionality of Rhapsody, including additional IF stages for mixed heterodyne architecture, bandpass filters, preamplifiers, transverters for additional bands, DSP boards, and more.

## Repository Contents

This repository contains software for the current version of Rhapsody, which is based on STM32F407 microcontroller and utilizes the I2S Pmod (24 bit ADC and DAC) board by Digilent.

## Signal Path Architecture

For detailed information about the signal path architecture utilized in Rhapsody, please refer to the [official project website](https://www.sp6gk.com/Rhapsody_IQ_Board.html).
Rhapsody currently utilizes an efficient ping-pong DMA buffer for the processing of audio samples. SSB generation and demodulation are performed using the phasing method and Hilbert filters. Audio filtering is carried out by FIR filter. The IIR filter was tested since it has the potential to offer a narrower bandwidth and better selectivity with fewer calculations. However, a problem with instability was encountered, very likely due to floating-point implementation. A future version of the software will focus on the DFT and inverse DFT implementation, which should allow for the implementation of a waterfall.

## Special Thanks

Special thanks to the following contributors and resources:

- **stm32-si5351** by [afiskon](https://github.com/afiskon/stm32-si5351)
- **CMSIS DSP tutorials** by [YetAnotherElectronicsChannel](https://www.youtube.com/@YetAnotherElectronicsChannel/videos) on YouTube
